We'll come back and this video we are going to check out another module which is this year's Wii module
and you learn how to use that and how to use the module index and which modules in even more
and how you will see how it's even more comfortable to use these VI files with an example of the CS
VI module.
So now let's first of all check out the python module index and therefore you just click on the link
and then you will find the module index.
And here you can choose the version that you want to use.
So based on the version that you want to check out the modules might be differently or might be different.
So in order to find out which version you have you simply used import says and then you print this dot
version.
So that's how you find out which version you're currently using in my case and using Python three point
six point five.
And if I look at the module capabilities.
Well of course I could check out version three point six or three point seven.
I've something in between so I'll probably have most of the modules of 3.7 some might be missing but
you can still check it out you can still check out which ones are available.
And most of the time it will be the same except for maybe a couple of ones.
So what we do here is we can check out all of the different modules so you can look at the calendar
module functions for working with calendars including some emulation of the unix calendar program.
Then you have to see as we write and read tabular data to and from the limited files then you have date
time which is basic data and time types so you can very easily use stuff like dates and times and stuff
like that.
Then there is an email module and so forth so you see the raw Well maybe not hundreds but plenty of
modules that you can use.
And these are the ones that are standard from this python version.
So within Python these are the standard ones.
And you can of course import modules from other people who have developed some pretty cool stuff which
will make your life a lot easier.
So the idea behind those modules is to make your life easier.
So it's not about complexity or something but those things.
Those modules they have such capabilities that you use or need.
So in your case if you have a situation where you know OK this is the end result but I want to have
then you first of all check out which modules could help you to get that end result.
And then you try to implement them step by step to see whether what you get is what you wanted to get.
So you don't develop everything yourself especially when it comes to more complex programs but you really
use modules from other people or from Python itself.
So let's go back to our file here so now we know where 3.6 5 and now we know that we can use the c as
V module.
So now in order to import the c v module Let's check it out let's just enter import C as V.
And now we can use all of the C S V stuff.
So how do we know what kind of stuff is relevant for us.
Well you can simply go here and check out this use vi module.
So just press on it.
So here you will find a lot of readable and useful information especially about before reading in this
case.
But of course that counts for all of the others as well so you can go into any of them and check out
how they work.
So for example day time if you want to check out how to use date time just read through this file and
you will find how to use it.
And the one that we would like to look at in this video is the reader.
This is the reader and writer where we're pretty much just going to read for now.
But as you can see module's contents and you can see how to use it.
So first of all you need to import sees V and then you go ahead and use this with open and the name
of the file new line as see as we follow.
So what we can do is we can pretty much just copy this code here and actually we can even go ahead and
copy some more.
So let's understand what's going on in here a little better.
So it says spam readers so that's a new variable which is a C is the reader who goes through the C S
V file which we have just opened and it delimiters.
So just as a kid delimiter.
And what kind of separator pretty much is in there.
So here it's an empty one or it's a pipe.
So that's what this reader function says here.
So there are multiple different ways of how to use this reader function.
But as you can see here this reader function that's the one we're currently looking at.
It needs to see as we file then it needs to know which dialects it's using and it has some further parameters.
And the ones that we are looking at is that so let me just copy this code here so I'm going to copy
everything to the point where I'm printing it out and we're going to adjust it a little bit.
So let's go into our file and here.
I don't need to start starts.
And same goes for this one.
So we need to have the right amount of indents or indentations to go like that.
So the file that I would like to look at is for example I have this file called file that says Vee which
is in my modules folder.
So in my modules folder which is the same folder where this file is that's why that's important.
I have this file called file but C is V and that's the one that I would like to check out.
And as you can see this is the information that I have.
Name Phone Number country and then we have Schmit a phone number where he's where he's at and he's in
Germany.
He's not in Germany but he's in Germany.
And then we have Varga who is in Hungary.
All right so let's check it out.
We need to change the name first so we have filed Azziz of the then new line we're going to leave as
is.
And we call this not CCV fall this just call it file.
And now what we can go ahead is call our variable as we like and I'm just going to call this file spem
reader but I'm going to call it CCV file because I want to go through the v file and that's why instead
of spam reader here I'm also going to change it to seize the file.
So I want to go through every row or line I always call that line but you can also keep it as row.
I would like to go to every single line and I want to print every single line so I'm just going to say
print line.
But now let's look at this CCV dot reader so we're calling this reader function from R C is v import.
So from this module and we need the file that we're talking about and the file.
How is it called.
Well we call that file.
We didn't call it C as you fall.
I'm just going to rename it to file.
And now the delimiter.
In my case is going to be say a comma.
So I look at my file and what is separating them as you see it's separated by a comma.
So now what I can do is I can say OK instead of an empty space I want to delimited by common.
Because if you have something like In this case this guy is just called Schmidt but if it's called something
like Frank Schmidt and there's an empty space in between then this thing would or DIS-EASE reader would
think that that's the delimiter that would like to use then I don't want to use a quote char.
So I'm just going to get rid of this whole piece here and now I would like to run my code.
So let's check it out let's see if it works.
And as you can see it works.
So what it did it created those lines from that CVS view reader and it now goes through every single
line.
So we have the name phone number in country.
Then another one.
Schmidt The phone number Germany.
And then we have Varga and the number.
He's from Hungary.
So there we are.
That's how we can use this CCV reader.
Now you might say Hey why am i even doing that.
Why don't I use the approach that we had last time.
Well the thing is that this is a very basic and very simple example but in some cases things are a little
more complicated.
So let's have a look at something where we create our own file.
So I have to get this to open up.
And it's called numbers on Windows.
You will usually use X-O.
So I have values in here and I'm just going to add values such as Shumate hello world and then hello
semi colon world.
And the next one I'm going to say Varga also hello world and here hello minus world.
So I'm going to save this file now.
Aunt may actually save it as a Excel file.
So as you can see you can save it as a C S V file Exel file and so forth.
So I'm gonna save it as a C as we fall.
Let's do that.
And you can have advanced options here well I'm going to leave it as is.
And now I'm going to call it from numbers for example I'm just going to call it from numbers.
Now I need to of course put it into the correct folder.
So I exported it.
So I know I need to put it into the modules folder as well so I'm going to put it in here.
As from numbers that's ESV
and now I would like to access that.
So I'm going to use the same approach I'm going to use in Portuguese V that I'm going to call it not
file C S V but was called from numbers C is v.
Then I'm going to call it file as well and then the read a delimiter is going to be a semi-colon because
if I now look at the file at this number from numbers that sees the file is that from numbers that C
has been has it can seen it separated with a semi-colon.
And there are plenty of other semi-colon surrounding it.
And these are just additional lines that were created.
So I don't need any of those right.
But then what this one does so that is Schmit has hello world and then it has Hello Semei call them
world.
So what were our usual code would do is it will just say OK this is one entry and this is the next entry.
Even though this whole thing here is the entry.
So that's where the CCV reader really comes into play.
So this read the function.
It has a delimiter but then we had this quote char this quote character as a separate paramita.
So here we are quote char is an additional parameter and you can use it as a pipe.
But in my case the one that I want to use if we look at the file once again is going to be the quotation
mark.
So I'm going to say something like quote char which means quote character is going to be my quotation.
So here's the important that you are using the single apostrophe and then you have the quotation mark
and another apostrophe.
So now I'm going to read through the file in the same way.
It's not created this list for me.
And as you can see as there are no commerce in there only semi-colons it only has one line per or one
entry per line.
So in the list this is a list.
This is a list and it always is one entry only.
So what's the problem.
Well because here my separator.
Delimiter is just a comma.
And what my file did it didn't create commerce as we had here.
Here we separated them by come up with the C as we file but numbers it transferred into semi-colons.
So numbers did it in a different way so instead of using it come on into the semi-colon.
Let me run that again.
And as you can see now it has empty space empty space empty space so this line contains plenty of empty
spaces.
Why is that.
Well that's because if we look at it there are plenty of semi colons.
Just one after another.
There is nothing in between so that's why we have all of these empty spaces.
And then for this Schmidt Hello World and hello world.
That's where it's interesting for us and what you can see here is that this semi-colon in here is not
separating and that's because we said that the quote chart is this quotation mark.
And now new Ok this whole thing is one entry and it's not going to separate it at the same my colon.
So as you can see this is not a very nice file that we have here but that's what numbers gave me.
I have another file which is called from Aksel that C C is v and you have access to that one as well.
So let's check out that file.
And as you can see here it's done in a much cleaner way.
So let's check out how we can read through this Excel file and we just need to change the name from
Excel.
And as you can see now it's displaying it also in a very nice way.
And here we have this whole world being together.
So it's one entry.
Same goes here.
So that's really where c this module here comes into play and really is useful.
So if you want to know more about it of course you can read through the documentation.
And yeah that's pretty much it.
See you in the next chapter where we are going to build our own crawler which will go through a Web
site and will display the information that is of interest to us.
So see you in the next chapter.